---
title: "Introduction"
weight: 3
---


The (MOTI) is responsible for transportation services, infrastructure
and formulates transportation policies. The strives to empower the to
achieve effective use of and greatest benefit from information
technology management.\

![MOTI IMB Banner](Images/IMBBanner.jpg)

{{< figure src="Images/IMBBanner.jpg" title="MOTI IMB Banner" attr="BC Government: MOTI IMB" caption="Figure 1: MOTI IMB Banner">}}

The oversees and maintains over 100 applications for . Older
applications usually are inconsistently documented and new staff
confront difficulties obtaining working knowledge of systems. Creating a
that contains all information of about every system involves
considerable effort, but will greatly simplify workflow. Consequently,
managing overwhelming and outdated amounts of information and create a
single location for all information about an application. Gathering
knowledge of database servers, contact information, applications urls
and documentation links demands widespread cooperation and
communication.

Atlassian, an enterprise software company, produces software tools
including and Confluence for team collaboration, software development
and organization. At MOTI IMB, enterprise software is used for issue
tracking, project management and organize content. Currently,
information is scattered across LAN DRIVES, Sites and other sources that
work for small groups of people. Going forward, using enterprise
software such as JIRA and Confluence is essential to manage projects and
their issues throughout the software development lifecycle.

Inspecting the capabilities of JIRA and Confluence is helpful to
streamlining the adoption of these versatile software products. While
JIRA offers flexible issue tracking and project management, Confluence
is wiki software used for technical documentation that locates
information quickly and easily. Improving and standardizing
documentation for applications requires methodically examining software
capabilities. Criteria include functionality, compatibility, ease of
use, strategic purpose and integration with existing software. Switching
to JIRA has reduced email volume, improved customer support and
simplified project management. Currently, the use Confluence restricted
to selected individuals. Analysing the potential uses of Confluence and
JIRA will provide insight on how to better use these new tools.